README.md, before:

# NewsOptimism
Comparative Analysis of various news media and quantify its postive impact.

# Problem
All around the world both good and bad happens, but we get to know only what we are exposed to. That's the responsibility of media. This App answers **How much** the each news media is providing the optimistic news to the society?

There is a famous concept called [**Law of attraction**](http://www.thelawofattraction.com/what-is-the-law-of-attraction/) written by Rhonda Byrne in her book [Secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Secret_(book)).
It says that we become who we are by what we say and what we read(there is a huge difference between saying '*I will be good guy*' and '*I won't be a bad guy*').

Thus the premise here is that what we read in News has a huge impact on the society, it doesn't matter whether we do it consciously or subconsciously.


# Hypothesis:
The English language words are considered to find out how much of positivity or negativity it contains. We measure this by comparing the
frequency of occurrence of the words across various news media.

# Target Audience:
The headline scrollers - people who scroll the news headlines and summary.

# Datasource:
    1. "http://www.nytimes.com/"
    2. "http://www.foxnews.com/"
    3. "http://www.reuters.com/"
    4. "http://www.cnn.com/"
    5. "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/"

These are the famous news websites considered based on the unique visitor count obtained from the [research](http://www.journalism.org/files/legacy/NIELSEN%20STUDY%20-%20Copy.pdf)

# Language:
    1. Python 3
    2. R

## Considerations to keep in mind:
1. Country considered is ONLY USA.
2. Data is extracted from the FRONT page of the above data sources.
3. The article title and the summary are extracted.
4. Data has been scrapped from the resources at the **same** time(since it gets updated regularly).

## The Approach
1. Collect news headlines and summary from all our datasets.
2. Convert the text document into Term Documen Matrix
3. Preprocess the data.
4. Tf-idf method is applied to find the importance of word.
5. Sentiment analysis to show of text how much positive or negative for eadh day.

Commit message:

Data extraction phase added along with sampledatapeek.ipynb and photo text file

README.md, after:

# NewsOptimism
Comparative Analysis of various news media and quantify its postive impact.

# Problem
All around the world both good and bad happens, but we get to know only what we are exposed to. That's the responsibility of media. This App answers **How much** the each news media is providing the optimistic news to the society?

There is a famous concept called [**Law of attraction**](http://www.thelawofattraction.com/what-is-the-law-of-attraction/) written by Rhonda Byrne in her book [Secret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Secret_(book)).
It says that we become who we are by what we say and what we read(there is a huge difference between saying '*I will be good guy*' and '*I won't be a bad guy*').

Thus the premise here is that what we read in News has a huge impact on the society, it doesn't matter whether we do it consciously or subconsciously.


# Hypothesis:
The English language words are considered to find out how much of positivity or negativity it contains. We measure this by comparing the
frequency of occurrence of the words across various news media.

# Target Audience:
The headline scrollers - people who scroll the news headlines and summary.

# Datasource:
    1. "http://www.nytimes.com/"
    2. "http://www.foxnews.com/"
    3. "http://www.reuters.com/"
    4. "http://www.cnn.com/"
    5. "http://www.huffingtonpost.com/"

These are the famous news websites considered based on the unique visitor count obtained from the [research](http://www.journalism.org/files/legacy/NIELSEN%20STUDY%20-%20Copy.pdf)

# Language:
    1. Python 3
    2. R

## Considerations to keep in mind:
1. Country considered is ONLY USA.
2. Data is extracted from the FRONT page of the above data sources.
3. The article title and the summary are extracted.
4. Data has been scrapped from the resources at the **same** time(since it gets updated regularly).
5. Our assumption is there is no bias between choosing articles.

## The Approach
1. Collect news headlines and summary from all our datasets.
2. Convert the text document into Term Documen Matrix
3. Preprocess the data.
4. Tf-idf method is applied to find the importance of word.
5. Sentiment analysis to show of text how much positive or negative for each day.

# Progress:

## 1) Data Extraction Phase:

Data is collected as Text Document from the datasources as mentioned above. Have a look at the text file of the articles
in the reuters.com front page.
![Reuters_10/17/2017](pictures/sample/reutersTextSamplefile.png)

It is then converted to a structured CSV format.
[Have Peek at the file structure](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/harishaaram/NewsOptimism/blob/master/Sample_data_peek.ipynb)
[Download original csv file](pictures/sample/reuters.csv)
